# Connecting to the robot
## Connecting to the Jetson from the AutoNav Laptop
First, plug the USB into the computer. This usb is used for the ssh connection to the Jetson.

Quick script to ssh into the jetson and launch the container:
`./go.sh`

Manual steps to ssh into the jetson and launch the container:
```bash
ssh jetson
cd AutoNav_25-26
./env/docker/run-container.sh # This launches the container
```
## Connecting to the Jetson from your own Laptop
First, plug in the USB into your computer. Your own computer might ask if it is okay for the device to connect, accept.

Run this command:
```
cat ~/.ssh/config
```
This will show you your own .ssh config where we need to add the jetson IP.
```
vim ~/.ssh/config
```
And while inside there add these lines:
```
Host jetson
      HostName 192.168.55.1
      User vtcro
      Port 22
      ForwardX11 yes
      ForwardX11Trusted yes
```
Then do `:wq` when you are done editing the config file. This will add the jetsons IP to your computer.

If you want to permanently link your comptuer to the jetson run:
```
ssh-copy-id jetson
```
Type in the password and then run the commands below.

Then the commands below should work for your computer now.
```bash
ssh jetson
cd AutoNav_25-26
./env/docker/run-container.sh # This launches the container
```



# Running the LiDAR
```bash
# Do not run core bringup. Pre slam launch will launch core bringup components and additional components.
ros2 launch bringup pre_slam.launch.py # Brings up and publishes the robot states (frames), arduino, and other components.
./config/run-lidar.sh # To run the lidar. You need to start lidar BEFORE slam because slam requires it in order to work.
ros2 launch slam slam.launch.py # Publishes the /map publishing
# Boots up arduino, motion controller, and odom
# Odom generated by encoders

# Launch nav2 manually. TODO: should later be re-enabled in the slam launch script
./config/run-nav2.sh
```

## Navigating
Ensure your frame in RViz is `map`
Put the robot in autonomous mode by pressing `x` on xbox controller.
The e-stop must be *rotated* to disengage. Then you must restart the robot. Otherwise, the robot will not be able to move. 

# Debugging the LiDAR
It's on `eno1`. 

Topic name should be `/scan_fullframe`. There is a mismash of `/scan` and `/scan_fullframe` and remappings throughout -- likely will need to unify these.

If the robot cannot connect to the lidar (cannot bind to the udp port), the lidar port likely needs to be brought up:
`sudo ip addr add 192.168.0.2/24 dev eno1 && sudo ip link set eno1 up`​

The lidar connects to the `eno1` port.

# Laser Scan
Visualize `/scan_fullframe` in RVIZ.


# ROS2 Commands
View the available topics `ros2 topic list`
Echo a topic
```bash
ros2 topic hz /scan_fullframe
ros2 topic echo /scan_fullframe --once
```
Display info about a topic: `ros2 topic info /topic`

## View the transformation trees

Visualize your tf trees as a pdf: `ros2 run tf2_tools view_frames`

This will create a file called frames{bunch of numbers}.pdf

# Rebuild Code Changes
To rebuild the code
```bash
# Be ssh-ed into the Jetson
# Pull your code

# Stop the container, if currently running
docker stop koopa-kingdom
# Restart (and rebuild) the container, bringing in the latest code changes
cd AutoNav_25-26
./env/docker/run-container.sh
# Rebuild the code
colcon build --symlink-install

# When you make a new package (ie a new folder within issaacrosdev/src), you'll need to source the new setup
source install/setup.bash

# You're now good to go
```

If less packages are building than expected (for example, only 14 out of 19), you likely need to update your submodule pointers. Check if `pointcloud_to_laserscan` and `zed-ros2-wrapper` are empty. If so, run `git submodule update --init`. We ran into this by accidentally deleting `isaac_ros-dev/`.

# Launch RVIZ inside the container
If Rviz is not working properly, you can try changing the display port inside the container: `export DISPLAY=localhost:10.0`. This should match the value of DISPLAY outside of the container (`echo $DISPLAY`).

```bash
./config/run-rviz.sh
```

# Move files between container and jetson

`scp vtcro@192.168.55.1:AutoNav_25-26/isaac_ros-dev/frames.pdf /home/vtcro/Documents/`

The first address is the location within the Jetson that you want to copy from. The second address is the destination. Do not forget the trailing slash!


# Helpful Background Documentation
Transforms between coordinate frames: https://docs.nav2.org/setup_guides/transformation/setup_transforms.html
* Create a transform tree using TF2. Each node = each coordinate frame and each edge = translation between the frames.
Required transformations:
* `map` to `odom`
* `odom` to `base_link`
* `base_link` to sensor
Set up URDF, Robot State Publisher, and RVIZ: https://docs.nav2.org/setup_guides/urdf/setup_urdf.html
* Robot State Publisher infers the transform tree from the URDF geometries and publishes it.
* We set up our robot_state_publisher in `core_bringup.launch.py`.
* Can also create collision tags for simulation.
Quick overview of Nav2: https://foxglove.dev/blog/autonomous-robot-navigation-and-nav2
More detailed overview of Nav2: https://docs.nav2.org/concepts/index.html

